# Bike-Sharing-Python-Regression
An attempt to study and implement a few regression models with python.

### Dataset: Description and Details

**Link**: *https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Bike+Sharing+Dataset*

**Description:** Bike sharing systems are new generation of traditional bike rentals where whole process from membership, rental and return back has become automatic. Through these systems, user is able to easily rent a bike from a particular position and return back at another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of over 500 thousands bicycles. Today, there exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in traffic, environmental and health issues.

Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being generated by these systems make them attractive for the research. Opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, the duration of travel, departure and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of important events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.

**Initial Analysis:** Dataset is supposed to have few missing values and some pre-processed columns. These columns will first be converted to view their original data and processed as per teachings of the course.

**Project Objective:** Data has attributes like season, year, month, hour, holiday, weekday, working day, weather situation, temperature, humidity, windspeed. These features might correspond to total rental bikes. Our objective is to:
* Initializations: Process data correctly to reflect right data impute missing values if required
* Preprocessing: Preprocess data for our machine learning models
* Data Visualization
* Apply ML Regression Models:
    1. KNN regressor
    2. Linear regression
    3. Ridge
    4. Lasso
    5. Polynomial regression
    6. SVM (simple, rbf, poly, linear)
* Grid Search for best parameters
* Cross-Validaiton to find average training and test scores
* Best Regressor with best parameters
